It would be cool if we could use something like Terminate, which is so complete, or other DOS programs, to telnet to BBSs. Do  you know if there's anything like a modem emulator that converts different phone numbers to different telnet addresses so you can connect to a telnet BBS using the phone directory?


Confirming modem emulator solutions exist for telnet BBS connectivity.



That exists! It's a popular approach in the retro scene.


tcpser modem emulator DOS telnet BBS phonebook
10 results






















Unearthed multiple modem emulation solutions for telnet connectivity.


Yes! There are a few options:

tcpser — The most popular solution. TCPSER turns a PC serial port into an emulated Hayes compatible modem that uses TCP/IP for incoming and outgoing connections. It can be used to allow older applications and systems designed for modem use to operate on the Internet. 
github

It has exactly the phonebook feature you're asking about. Frequently used addresses can be configured in the "phonebook" 
github
 — you set up entries like:

5551000=bbs.example.com:23
5551001=anotherbbs.net:23
Then from your DOS terminal program you just ATDT5551000 and it connects to the telnet address.

DOSBox built-in — Even simpler if you're already using DOSBox. Basically, you don't need anything except DOSBox! No socat. No tcpser. DOSBox has its own built-in routines for piping a telnet connection through its virtual serial port. 
breakintochat

You configure the serial port in dosbox.conf and then just type Hayes commands with the telnet address: ATDTbbs.example.com:23

Hardware solutions — For real vintage hardware, there are devices like the WiModem232 or DIY projects like the PiModem that put a Raspberry Pi inside an old modem case, complete with working LEDs.

For running Terminate in DOSBox specifically, the DOSBox built-in method is probably your easiest path — just edit the config file to enable the serial/modem emulation and you're set.

does tcpser work on windows? (the plain dosbox solution wouldn't work with terminal program phone directories that only accept numbers(


Verified Windows compatibility and acknowledged phonebook utility.






Yes, it works on Windows. The application archive contains a pregenerated Windows 32 bit executable (tcpser.exe). No compilation should be required. 
github
 Though at least the cygwin1.dll library is required to operate tcpser under Windows. 
github

The trick is you'd need to connect it to a virtual serial port that DOSBox can see. People use tools like com0com (a virtual null-modem driver for Windows) to create a pair of virtual COM ports — tcpser listens on one, DOSBox uses the other.

So the setup would be:

Install com0com to create virtual COM port pairs (e.g., COM4 ↔ COM5)
Run tcpser pointing at one of them with your phonebook
Configure DOSBox to use the other virtual COM port
Run Terminate, set it to use COM1 (which DOSBox maps to your virtual port)
Dial "5551234" from Terminate's phone book and tcpser translates it to the telnet address
It's a bit of a chain to set up, but once it's working you get the full authentic experience — your terminal program's phone directory works with numeric entries and everything.


